#summary Presentation of the jmxf library

= Jmxf library =


== Introduction ==

Jmxf is an open source Java library. The objective is to have a pure Java library that can be used to decode MXF video files. It doesn't depend on any external libraries, making it easy to use on any kind of architecture and/or operating system. This library is free software, it is possible to redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation (see the GNU General Public License for more details).

We decided to match our architecture to the one defined in the ffmpeg project `[`1`]`. This decision allows us to simplify the conversion of existing reliable codecs and formats library decoding written in C to Java. The MXF format decoding is assured by some classes converted from the C version of MXF decoder of the ffmpeg project. The Mpeg2 codec is taken from the jffmpeg project `[`2`]`.



== MXF/D10 file format ==

Material eXchange Format (MXF) is a container format for professional digital video and audio media defined by a set of SMPTE standards. It supports a number of different streams of coded "essence", encoded with any of a variety of codecs, together with a metadata wrapper which describes the material contained within the MXF file.

This library targets the SMPTE D10 format. it is composed of MPEG-2 Video 4:2:2 I-frame only and 8 channel AES3 audio streams. These AES3 audio usually contain 24 bit PCM audio samples. It is possible to find video bitrates of 30, 40 and 50 MBit/s.



== Library architecture ==

The library replicate the ffmpeg project architecure. The idea is to facilitate the conversion of existing C decoding libraries to Java. It proposes three main packages.

  * uk.ac.liv.app : This package provides a set of standalone applications that demonstrate how the library can be used to manage known file formats.  
    * !ExtractAudio extracts an uncompressed audio wave file from an MXF file.   
    * !ExtractFrames extracts a set of PNG frames from an MXF file.

  * uk.ac.liv.ffmpeg.format : This package regroups all the classes and methods we need to use to parse and decode video formats
    * AVFormatContext is the main class which will store information parsed from the file.    
    * AVInputFormat is the generic format decoder that needs to be extended to create a new format decoder.    
    * uk.ac.liv.app.ffmpeg.format.mxf stores the classes needed to decode MXF, the main class is Demux which extends AVInputFormat. 
   
  * uk.ac.liv.ffmpeg.codecs : This package regroups all the classes and methods we need to use to parse and decode audio and video codecs.  
    * AVCodecContext stores the main codec configuration, initialized from the parsed file.    
    * AVCodec is the generic class for the codecs, it needs to be extended to create a new codec implementation.    
    * uk.ac.liv.ffmpeg.codecs.mpeg12 is the codec used to decode MPEG-2 binary datas and produce RGB frames. The main class is Mpeg12. Most of the code comes from jffmpeg `[`2`]`.     
    * uk.ac.liv.ffmpeg.codecs.pcm is the audio codec used in MXF files.  
 
 
== Example applications ==

  * !ExtractFrames: extracts a set of PNG frames from an MXF file
     usage: java -cp jmxf-0.1.jar uk.ac.liv.app.!ExtractFrames test.mxf 0 10
     
     where
      * text.mxf is the mandatory video file you want to decode
      * 0 is the optional first frame you want to decode
      * 10 is the optional number of frames you want to decode

  * !ExtractAudio: extracts an uncompressed audio wave file from an MXF file
     usage: java -cp jmxf-0.1.jar uk.ac.liv.app.!ExtractAudio test.mxf 0 10
     
     where
      * text.mxf is the mandatory video file you want to decode
      * 0 is the optional first frame you want to decode
      * 10 is the optional number of frames you want to decode
      * the frames indices are used to define the range in the file
     
  * Multivalent/Fab4 media engine `[`3`]``[`4`]`: Multivalent is a standalone browser that can be used to display a large range of files. The jmxf library has been wrapped in a media engine, given Multivalent a way to display and render an MXF video file. 
  

== References ==

  * `[`1`]` http://ffmpeg.org
  * `[`2`]` http://jffmpeg.sourceforge.net/
  * `[`3`]` http://multivalent.sourceforge.net/
  * `[`4`]` http://code.google.com/p/fab4browser/

 
 